Well, let's start at the beginning of the story. So how did you pick the first team and what was the story behind that?
I saw those teams that you worked on initially, the design ones, and I was thinking, how do you measure success or how do you prove that this prototype was a good idea? Kind of going off a vibe. So I'm curious, what does a successful project even look like?
You mentioned you weren't optimizing for impact at that point, and it sounds throughout your career that's a common thing. What were you optimizing for in that team choice?
You had a lot of opportunities to work with different designers. I'm kind of curious from an engineer's perspective, what makes the best designers to work with?
So if I'm understanding correctly, you mentioned the short iteration loop, but also it's kinda this bi-directional communication. Engineering might propose something that design doesn't know. Design does the same. And the end result is a much better product.
So I think that first leg of your career you were working on traditional iOS kinds of things, very design oriented. And I understand that you pivoted at some point more towards a completely different domain. You switch teams multiple times. Even within iOS. But then you switched to an entirely different domain in hardware and prototyping experimental hardware. What was your thinking behind wanting to shift to such a different domain?
Yeah. I'm curious 'cause you said two diffs in six months, and it sounds like there's a lot of risk and you are doing a lot of things that may not be easy to measure or prove the impact. I think a lot of people would be scared of switching teams, especially to a risky area like that. They worry their PSC (Meta’s performance review system) would look bad or something. What was your performance review like in that?
I'm kind of curious 'cause you were mostly in software engineering initially what's the biggest difference you see between hardware teams and software teams?
So you had the hardware teams, and it sounds like that was a lot of fun. And then eventually you went to a series of teams that I'm really interested in because they were cutting edge prototypes on products that we know that launched. So I want to hear the stories behind that. What made you shift from hardware back into these software teams specifically focused on these rapid prototypes.
Okay. So then crypto winter happened. You switched off that team and you started working on a very experimental, interesting project, Instagram Threads. Yeah. Prior to its launch. I'm curious, how did you get recruited to that team? 'cause that's a really, you know, cool, interesting zero to one project.
You mentioned working with Peter super senior engineer at Instagram. What is the thing that made him so great, when you worked with him?
Okay. So he knows the company so well that it's almost as if you prompt him.
I think one thing that's really interesting to me and the story, how you got this opportunity, this is a really cool team that you joined very, kind of cutting edge is, it sounds you were already known as someone that had these visible prototypes.
So they came to you, but then not only that, you just took some initiative to just instantly start it. It doesn't sound like they asked you to prototype. You just replied with, here's it, working with Mastodon, and also here's another idea of a, you know, bare bones, iOS app that's kind of showing the vision.
So I feel that's a pretty interesting takeaway and I, it sounds like your prototypes too, they must not live in a vacuum. It's not you who built it. It's kind of your curiosity. It sounds like you build it and you share it, and a lot of people get excited about it. And you're already known as a prototyping person. Would you say that's true?
And then after Threads, you mentioned that you worked on a string of AI related prototypes and transitioned away from that and started working on, you know, Meta AI and stuff like that. Is there a favorite prototype or maybe a story in there that you think would be worth talking about?
You know, when people talk about visibility, you know, it's oh, write up that says you moved this much, which is good too. But it sounds to me like a good prototype, about the right idea. It connects with people in a way that writing can't, which is someone can click into it. Yeah. Someone can really see it's, it's such a high throughput thing, rather than just text. You got the whole thing in front of you. It sounds like a really good tool for driving the imagination of the future. Direction alignment, it sounds on, Hey, this is a good idea. A hundred percent. We should go with it.
So I'm kind of curious, when it comes to career growth, looking back, if I recall correctly, you were hired as an IC4 (Mid-level engineer at Meta), then were eventually promoted to IC6(Staff engineer at Meta). Even though it was not something you really even thought too much about. What are your thoughts on, you know, your career growth and also in switching teams as you go about it?
I mean, it sounds like the breadth paid off as well. There were many of the opportunities that you got because you were kind of shooting shots everywhere and people had seen that. So you cast a wide net?
You know, when it comes to career advice, it's anecdotal and we can't really tell what would've happened if you did something differently. We just kinda interpret the dots looking back. But one thing I was just thinking that might be interesting is that bootcamp class that you joined, for some reason everyone stayed at the company. The entire time, and they're completely different people. And it's also a low sample size, but I'm curious, I don't know how much tabs you kept on, you know, what they're doing and how, but when you compare your career to theirs in terms of what they worked on and how theirs went, you know, do you notice any differences?
It also kind of reminds me of the discussion of metrics versus, I guess vibes, for lack of a better word, is that there's a lot of merit to that hyper optimized way of thinking, but it also is the trap of, you know, local maximums and you want, if you wanna monotonically increasing right number. It's not gonna, if you're not willing to take them down, you might not unlock some, you know, change.
You did 10 teams in nine years. I'm curious, looking back on all of them, is there any of them that you, the team switch, you kind of regretted, or maybe it's a team switch where you thought, oh, actually that one looking back, maybe not ideal.
Yeah. I, I had never worked directly with you, but I knew of you so clearly what you had done cast a very wide net while.
Now you've left Meta. What was the rationale for leaving Meta rather than doing another team switch?
So it sounds like you left because you wanted to go even deeper into prototyping and doing your own thing and being unbounded and it's a two-way door, not a one-way door. You can always go back.
And then last thing, is it looking back on your career, and if you were to talk to yourself when you had just entered the industry and you could give yourself some advice, what would that thing be that you tell yourself?
Yeah. That reminds me of something that a VP had written, early Facebook, and he said something one of the big learnings was that the value and where the real impact comes from is not from taking something that's poor and bringing it to passable, but taking something that's great and making it exactly. Excellent. A hundred percent. So thanks for taking the time. I was really, you know, looking forward to it and is there anything you want to say to the audience?
First thing I wanted to go over is, I think Microsoft's leveling system is a little bit unique compared to the other big tech companies. I see on levels FY that the leveling system goes from 59 to 70. And there's almost two levels per title, two levels per SD one, two levels for SD two, two in senior, and it keeps going on all the way down to distinguished. Can you explain the Microsoft leveling system a little bit?
So, that's the thing I want to dig into. You went through this entire thing, you started all the way as an intern. You've been there for your entire career and you grew all the way to distinguished. I want to go over that story. Could you tell me the story behind you joining Microsoft?
What was that like going to Bill Gates' house?
When you interviewed for Microsoft at the time in 2006, was there lead code or what did the process look like at the time? What kind of things did they ask?
No.
That's so funny because people hate on lead code all the time. But these puzzles sound like they coach better than these puzzles.
It’s come a long way since then.
So going back to the story, after you had the internship, you committed for full-time. You had pretty quick career growth on the outset, and I see that there are a few pivotal projects that led to the upward trajectory past senior. I want to talk about the story behind those projects. For instance, maybe we can start with NuGet, which is the package manager. What's the story behind that project?
When you were building this, it sounds like it got critical adoption within the .NET platform. What did your performance review look like when you finished building this? Was that a really incredible success for someone who wasn't even a senior engineer yet?
You mentioned that NuGet grew way past what you imagined, and I know some companies have this idea of deferred impact where people continue to get credit for something they built that continues to pay out for the company. Did you see anything like that in your subsequent performance reviews?
You mentioned some other larger projects, so maybe we can talk about some of those. Yeah, there was SignalR.
What was the motivation for SignalR? What made you pull the weekends and late nights to build this thing that seems like it was outside of Microsoft?
This is interesting because you grew through this project, and it was permissionless. No one handed it to you. There wasn't a manager or PM that came to you and said, "Hey, you're staffed on this project." You just went and built something, and it was so impactful that it led to a ton of career growth. I'm curious, is there some way for us to reverse engineer that for others? How do you go about starting projects where the motivation comes completely from you within a large organization?
It's interesting that you say agency. I think a lot of people who work at big companies or talk about big companies feel like it's difficult to have agency. They have all these projects that are assigned to them, depending on the team culture. It sounds like you had that agency through energy. You were moonlighting, going above and beyond. You did your normal stuff, but then on top of that, you had all this extra agency. Am I understanding that's how you unlocked agency at a big company?
You get a lot more of those permissioned opportunities when you have credibility, and permissionless agency is almost this hack to bypass credibility.
Yeah, that makes sense. I've seen that a lot. The very high fast-growing software engineers are almost this weapon that management and people around them say, we trust you. Go do that thing that you do, and they can go and try all these risky projects. If you were someone who is struggling to meet expectations, a lot more directed opportunities are being handed to you, and you're being monitored. I can totally see that this is so true. Going to your late-stage promotions, you got the promotion to principal, you got the promotion to distinguished at Microsoft. I'm curious, what is the thing that led to the promotion to principal?
You mentioned that the team grew so much that you had to scale yourself out of necessity. What are the things that you did that allowed you to be an architect for so many engineers without burning yourself out?
You mentioned the architect title or I guess role. What does that mean at Microsoft?
So as you've grown to distinguished engineer at Microsoft, how has the percent of your time that you spend writing code changed?
If you stopped coding right now and just kept leading the team, would your performance review look fine?
When you got the promotion to distinguished engineer, what's the story behind that?
Were you involved in that process at all, or was it a surprise when you got the distinguished promotion?
You mentioned the lofty expectations of this distinguished engineer level. Is that something that you worry about now that you've been acting in the role for a while?
So you went through 11 promotions, which is kind of ridiculous. You went all the way from the beginning to then, and the crazy thing you're saying, Guido, the creator of Python, is at that level as well. I can't even fathom, because apparently there's one last one. The technical fellow. What does that Final Boss level even look like?
Were there any unexpected perks of getting voted to distinguished engineer? At a lot of companies, when you get promoted to a certain level, you get added to special forums that only distinguished engineers have access to.
You mentioned that mentor was incredibly impactful. What were the things he was telling you that made a difference?
You mentioned a lot of impressive engineers, and I think as a distinguished engineer you have a unique perspective because you can see what is impressive with a critical eye of a great engineer. What are some examples of other engineers that you look up to and what makes them impressive to you?
So I think the next set of questions I want to ask you, because you have a public presence on Twitter, there are all these top tweets that I'd be curious to have you expand on. The first one is talking about university courses. You said there should be a university course that explains how to refactor code, how to make changes to it without breaking an existing code base. If you were to design that course, what would some of the key concepts be?
I think there was another set of tweets that I saw around the idea that tech interviews are focused so much on writing new code. But actually, the real high leverage skill is debugging it. What gives you that thought? Maybe you can expand on that.
As evidence of that being very impactful, I know some companies have different archetypes. You mentioned the super coder, also known as the code machine in some places. There's also the archetype fixer, which is really cool because it's been described as someone who drops in somewhere, makes a one-line change after tons of investigation, and it gets two times better, three times better, or something like that.
So impressive. Another tweet that you had I thought was really interesting says, lukewarm take: the lower on the technology stack you sit, the less mistakes you're allowed to make. What made you think of that? Did something break super low level in the stack somewhere?
There's another tweet here and that is really interesting. It's about promotions. You said that when you got promoted to a senior software engineer at Microsoft, you remember thinking that other people were smarter than you and should have been promoted first. You would've thought they would be angry, but the opposite happened. Actually having good coworkers matters a lot and people weren't. Yeah. What's your thought there?
So you've been working at Microsoft for over 17 years now, and one of the tweets you have is talking about big company tips. It says before you change roles, ask when the last reorg was. What's the thinking behind that?
I see. So you're saying you should read the behind the scenes of the reorg and what that means for your career in the future.
You've been at Microsoft for a long time, your entire career, even including your internships. I'm curious what has kept you at Microsoft this long.
What kept you at Microsoft? It sounds like those offers were better than what you were making at the time.
Do you think that if you had a mentee today facing the same decision, they're at Microsoft, they're doing well, and they have a pre-IPO OpenAI offer or something better than what they have now, would you tell them to stay at Microsoft or would you say maybe go with the risky thing?
You had this interesting tweet on job hopping that I thought was maybe relevant now, which is that you said once in your career you should work on a project long enough to see the long-term impact of your decisions. It's a humbling experience.
That's a good one. So it could be better for long-term growth in some cases.
Yeah. I could see it better for developing judgment. But I could also see it being, you know, imagine a career that's a leg of jumps. Assuming every jump is higher than the other, that person's probably gonna have a lot of career growth. But if all the projects they start just kind of go downhill once they leave, I wonder what it does for their pattern recognition judgment.
Coming to the end of this, I kinda wanna ask you some high-level reflections and things. One thing I'm curious about, because you're so high up at Microsoft at this point, and you've been there for so long too. I know the common perception is pre-Satya, Microsoft was very different from post-Satya, at least in terms of stock performance. Did you notice anything internally like the culture shifting when Satya became CEO?
I see. Okay. So the culture shifted through performance incentives and some of the stuff that was messaged top down?
There's a famous XKCD comic about the culture at different companies, and if I recall correctly, the Microsoft one is a drawing of people with guns. The guns pointed at each other.
When you look back on your career so far, do you have any major regrets that people can learn from?
When you look back on your career, what was your work-life balance like throughout?
Yeah, I think when I look at a lot of people's careers who have been as successful as you, that's one of the unfair advantages I see. Almost everyone has this innate, intrinsic motivation. They work a ton of hours, just nonstop, and a lot of people love it. That is such an unfair advantage.
And then last question. If you could go back to yourself when you were just graduating college and entering the industry and give yourself some advice, what would you say?
You mentioned you went to Waterloo and I, I gotta ask the smartest interns that I ever worked with, they came from MIT, Caltech, and Tsinghua University in China, but the best interns I ever worked with all came from Waterloo. And so I, I’m curious, what is it that makes these Waterloo interns so strong?
After you went through all of those iterations and all the co-op loops, understand that you started your own company, um, which became post rank. Was then acquired by Google. And I’m curious the story behind you choosing to found a company Right after graduating from Waterloo.
So in the process of building this company, I know eventually it was acquired by Google, but I’m really curious because I feel like a lot of acquisition conversations are behind the scenes. Hush, hush. Um, what does that kind of conversation look like? Like when they reach out for an acquisition and maybe you can tell that story.
In being brought in as an acquisition, how’d they determine leveling or compensation or any of that stuff?
I see. Okay. So it’s, it is just a normal interview process. What about in the case though, ‘cause you’re bringing in company and assets and stuff, is that just like a giant signing bonus or something, or. How’s that?
So I want to get into your career at Google and it sounds like you were placed initially in Google Analytics. I’m curious what the leveling was and the role. Were you a manager? ‘cause you mentioned your, you brought your team with you.
You turn down this more clear cut director path, which would be the clear cut growth path for career. Um, to optimize for other things, which was sounds like intrinsic motivation in the work. Curiosity, and also sounds like maybe you got some time back. Is that the math you were doing in your head and making that choice?
So later I saw that you switched back to management and your director. Uh, developer relations at Google. So what was the rationale then? Switching back, given what you just said?
So when you say tour of duty, it’s this starting as an ic, doing path finding, and then becoming a manager potentially is all. In service of a mission or a problem. Like you, you see some problem. Maybe em is the best way to solve that problem. Maybe IC is, but it’s really all about the problem.
I know later the story continues with you went to Shopify. You became an IC and you went from a principal engineer to a distinguished engineer. I’m curious, what is the tour of duty there that got you promoted?
I see. So when you say don’t be the best, be the only, you’re saying that generalists have an advantage because they can put together a bunch of skill sets, get most of the way there, and be the only because the intersection of all the skill sets is more special and more resilient because you have such a wide toolbox. Is that right?
I had one mentor who did Seesaw as well, and he said that management. Always appreciates an IC that understands management because it’s much easier to partner with them.
When you look over the course of your career, were there any points where you have regrets that others could learn from?
Definitely, definitely. And yes, I can relate. I think there was a, there’s a year or two where I was writing a newsletter and every week I’d published something and at some point the email list is growing and it’s growing, and I could tell at the beginning when I’m ideating, what am I gonna write this week? A lot more nos coming in my mind. I go, oh no, this one, this topic’s not good. Right? Uh, I’ve seen this somewhere. Oh, this.
Definitely. And I, I also wonder if that kind of similar thinking as you grow in your career. I mean, it would take some courage for you to step into a new area that’s completely new to you if everyone knows you as distinguished engineer and very knowledgeable in your given domain to step into some new area where you’re gonna make a lot of mistakes. That, that feeling of that downgrade is, is tough for a lot of people.
Is there a top book that impacted your career?
Then the last question is, if you could go back to yourself at the beginning of your career and give yourself some advice, knowing everything you know now, what would you say?
I see. So to be more brave. Chase your passions. Yeah.
Awesome. Well thank you so much for your time, Ilya. I’m really excited to share this one with everyone. Is there anything you wanna say to the audience before we end the, the recording?
Because you were a senior manager in big tech and I thought it would be really interesting for all the ICs out there to go over all of the PIP stuff that happens, all of the stack ranking behind the scenes, performance management, and of course I was curious about your career. So I guess before we dig into all that, maybe we can start with Amazon. Can you tell me a little bit about what you worked on and how you got to Amazon?
You went towards the advertising space. Was that something that you picked or was there was a general pipeline and you were placed somewhere?
And so it looks like it turned out to be a huge grind. And I saw that you stayed there for some time, what was the average work like?
I saw that you grew through the early levels and then you also transitioned to management at Amazon as well. Are there any notable stories from your growth to an SDM (Software Development Manager)?
What were those early manager mistakes that make you say it was premature?
I see. You mentioned getting people to reveal their goals. Do you have any tips for that as a new manager?
You mentioned storytelling. For managers there's a lot of value in that. And I think also for ICs too, people talk about the storytelling behind talking about your work or maybe getting people interested in getting buy-in behind things. Do you have any tips on how to improve your storytelling?
You've mentioned your manager didn't have time for the niceties. What was your manager doing then, and how did you have that opportunity to kind of do that role before you even had that title?
So then if you were to survey the sentiment of his org, do you think that people were unhappy with his behavior?
Coming to the end of the Amazon leg, what was the thing that made you leave and want to join Meta?
You mentioned Amazon's peculiar ways and how that might be different from what a good engineering leader is. What are those things that stick out to you where you thought, that's good for Amazon, but that may not actually be the thing that's for a good engineering leader.
You mentioned that at some point you transitioned to working on ML work and forecasting at Amazon, and I know you continue to work and Integrity is a very machine learning focused space. How was that transition for you? Was that challenging?
So you're saying the thing that helped you successfully transition was not necessarily learning those fundamentals, although you did it. It was the experience building the intuition behind what is improving model performance and building your own taste and intuition. Is that right?
Right. What was the motivation for moving into ML?
I guess, you know, going back to your time at Meta, I saw that you got promoted from a frontline manager to a senior manager, and I think a lot of people struggle with that growth. So I'm curious, you know, what did that look like for you? What was the story behind that promotion to M2?
The mutiny you mentioned is really interesting. How does that surface in practice? How, you know, how could someone underneath you kind of usurp you or kind of that mutiny could come in?
As a manager, especially not just a frontline manager, but more senior manager. Are you saying that there is a secret chess almost where there's a behind the scenes motives that people have, aside from the business motives that are maybe their personal career motives, that can lead to some unusual behaviors or maybe these political behaviors that you're talking about?
It sounds like a lot of these behaviors are kind of zero sum behaviors. So I could imagine in an environment of either a shrinking company or stagnant company, or I guess sub-org of a company, that these would be more prevalent. And am I understanding correctly that if a company or an org is growing a lot, that's just abundance, so there's a lot less of this going on 'cause everyone can get what they want.
You mentioned when I asked about, what does mutiny look like? You said that, and I just want to confirm it was that M1 would go to your, their skip. So I guess your manager and say, Hey, Stefan is thrashing things. Are you sure he's good? Kind of things behind the scenes when in meetings you are not present.
You mentioned manager under performance. I'm curious because there were a lot of layoffs in the past. Do you feel managers have, they're harder to lay off than ICs are? And if so, why?
Yeah, I think I see the occasional comment that assumes that managers or, you know, leaders have some special treatment and they, you know, can't be fired or it's harder, but, yeah, I agree. I think we've seen that that is not necessarily the case that mentioned, types of leadership per stage of company, and they have, there's different effectiveness if the company's smaller or a more scrappy versus the larger companies. I'm kind of curious about that. What type of leadership do you think is most effective when the company's really small, and what type of leadership do you think is most effective when the company's very big?
When I asked you about the promotion to senior manager, you mentioned the size of your org and that managers were reporting to you. So it sounds like that was a big part of the promotion to have the scope to be a senior manager. I'm curious about the skill difference between an M1 and an M2 in your opinion. If we were to just imagine I took a random M1 or maybe yourself, and before you were promoted and you were just a new M1 and I, I put you in an M2 role and you just said have at it, what are the biggest skill gaps that you would've had?
You've experienced IC career growth and manager career growth. I'm curious to compare and contrast, you know, IC versus management, I guess growth paths. What do you think of the differences between the two? And also I'm curious, do you find that they're both meritocratic? I often hear that there's some, you know, cynical takes on some, you know, one being less meritocratic than the other. So, curious about your thoughts.
I think one thing I was curious to dig into is that, you know, knowing that you've been at Meta and you've been at Amazon and you, you had a fair amount of time at both, I thought it'd be interesting to kinda ask you the pros and cons of each, or at least your personal experience. I know these companies are. Very large. And you know, some people have great experiences in a small team and others have bad ones within these companies. But I'm curious, when you think about Meta versus Amazon, what are the cultural differences that stand out to you?
Having been a manager at each company, you experience the performance system intimately. What about comparing and contrasting the performance systems at Meta and Amazon?
Yeah. I remember when I worked at Amazon briefly and one of the leadership principles was frugality and I, I never, I never liked that one, but, nobody does. Nobody does.
You know, with some of the layoffs that kind of happened in the past, there's mentions of lower low performer quotas, and I'm kind of curious, is that something that you experienced when you were working at these companies and how do they work?
You mentioned PIPs. I'm curious, do you think that they work and you know, are there any differences between PIPs across the companies? This is based off that Reddit thread. I think someone asked, are they just a formality to create a paper trail? Or can people actually get out of a PIP?
With the rise of these AI cheating tools and, you know, LLM assistance. I'm curious, you know, how much do you see that coming up when you're either helping people prepare, or maybe you're just in the space, thinking about interview prep?
I'm curious, 'cause I imagine an algo interview is more easy to cheat than a system design one. Do you see any differences in, I don't know, maybe the growth of algo interview signups is lower than the growth of system design signups or something that might make us infer that cheating has any impact on the future?
If someone was hell bent on passing OpenAI or Anthropic interviews. What's the optimal game plan from your experience at Hello Interview?
Coming to the end of the interview, I wanted to ask you some career reflections things. Just looking back on everything so far, kind of reflect on some of the things that you've learned. I saw that, you know, in your resume you worked in both of your stints in big tech, you stayed in the roles for quite some time, maybe around four years or longer. And so I'm curious about your thoughts on job hopping quickly, because that is advice that a lot of people give. What are your thoughts on job hop?
Definitely. Yeah. And I think what you're saying about job hopping not being as effective later makes a lot of sense too, because, for instance, a lot of what you talked about in being a successful senior leader, either as an IC or as an EM, came through influence and credibility and your ability to get people to go in a certain direction. And that's one of those things that, I mean, if you just show up somewhere, you can build credibility. You can always rebuild credibility. But it is one of those things that, as you have, it's a snowball. It keeps getting bigger. Your credibility in that organization, you'll be able to move people a lot easier. So, you know, people who are early in their org. Have a disproportionate amount of influence because of their time in the role and what they've done already and what they know.
When you think back to your career and when you felt the most growth on average, looking across everything. When would you say is the time that you grew most and why?
On the topic of writing. 'cause I know it's really important. I'm just curious, what would be your top tip? If there's some, you know, I see or em you're saying, Hey, you need to improve your writing. What would be the thing?
So if I'm understanding, it's to hone your taste as a reader first and that will let you critically reflect on your own writing and improve it.
And then, last question. If you could go back to yourself when you had just graduated college and give yourself some advice, what would you say?
Awesome. Well thanks so much for your time, Stefan. I was really looking forward to talking to you and kind of digging into all this management stuff. So.
Before actually working at Firefox, I saw that you interned at Nvidia. I’m kinda curious, why’d you pick Mozilla over Nvidia?
So, I’m kind of curious at this time, how does this tie into the, the timeline of Google Chrome and, and the browser wars? Was this before Google Chrome?
You mentioned that at some point you had Google badges and you had free food through Google and you had a good working relationship with them. How did it transition from that to a full competition in your personal experience?
You mentioned prior to Google’s funding, this was a group of, uh, bunch of people that were working for free in many cases. I’m kind of curious ‘cause I haven’t done a lot of open source stuff. What is the incentive structure? Why? Why would people spend so much time working for free on a project like this?
Yeah, I’m kind of curious, like, you know, once you got there, I want to hear a little bit about the projects that you’re working on and the various stories of things that happened in the early days. Are there any projects that you felt were particularly interesting or contributed to your career?
How’d you know that that security researcher wrote that vulnerability?
So I could see, and I’m just trying to understand here, the, the security issue here is there’s some front end code that abuses or does some special path in Firefox. And then can take over Firefox in, in that case in the past. But how does it take over the computer? Wouldn’t the operating system kinda shield, um, ideally from Firefox doing crazy stuff?
Did you ever figure out how Bugzilla was compromised?
One thing that I was curious about is, as an organization, how do you prioritize security? Because for instance, at the time there was also these big investments in performance, and I’m sure there was a bunch of other things
You mentioned no performance reviews and this, uh, scrappy bottoms up culture. How does that kind of culture work?
You mentioned a little bit about c plus plus and memory safety issues. That’s a very classic thing, and I know that Rust was developed at Mozilla to tackle those problems in large part. So I’m curious, um, can you tell me a little bit about the adoption of Rust and you know, how it solves the problem?
Yeah. I wanna talk about the composition with Chrome at the time, because you said they launched with a, uh, more performant browser and also they were hammering you guys with, uh, distribution advantages. I’m curious, what was the strategy at that time from the Mozilla team to compete with Chrome?
So you mentioned the strategy with Servo and the rewrite and Rust. How did it go? Was it successful? Well, we, we know that Google’s distribution eventually dominated, but how did the efforts with Servo go?
Okay. So you mentioned that this was one of the most proud moments of your career and like a major launch, very exciting project. I’m kind of curious to talk about the career parts of it. So where were you in your career at this point? And maybe you can talk about how it grew, um, as you worked on these projects.
When you talk about the individual con contributions, ‘cause you mentioned that was your way of having a lot of impact, do you have a way of thinking about which contributions are more impactful than others?
So you were prolific, but it was a guided search specifically on the biggest problems for the organization.
One thing that I’m curious about, ‘cause in the industry when it comes to career growth, I often hear two methodologies. One is where people, they focus on the promo first and foremost, and as a byproduct you get the promo, they, you know, grow and level our skills and various other things, behaviors. And in the other school of thought, it’s ignore the promos, but focus on the behaviors, focus on the skills. And then the promos will come. I’m curious your thought between the two methodologies and which one you think is better for structuring an engineering career.
One thing that I hear often, ‘cause I think this is a failure mode for engineers that are a little more soft spoken, is they’re great at writing code and landing it and having impact, but they’re a little weaker on the, you know, selling yourself or kind of marketing your work. And so that kind of bites people. And so sometimes I hear career advice that is focused on, you know, hey. Make sure you create a brag document and you share the wins when you land the thing. And, and I think a lot of those people don’t have an ulterior motive of, let me, you know, kind of connive my way into the promo. Um, but I think there is this, this real thing of promos are decided by people and there’s some value in, I guess a balance. ‘cause obviously if you were completely conniving, you say, Hey, I’m gonna talk to my manager and sell my work to him. That’s kind of not ideal. But, you know, making pulses or sharing it and thinking about the levels and stuff seems to be a good way for those, um, little quieter or less proactive engineers in structuring their career. So, you know, how would you kind of balance those two frames of thinking?
Yeah, it’s, it’s interesting ‘cause it’s, it’s subtle. I feel like you could have two people with different incentive. One goes into it saying, I’m gonna create this update. So I get visibility and the other person comes in to say, I’m gonna create this update. So the right people know the right things and they get to the same path at the end of the day.
It is an ideal world that people have impact and they get recognized exactly as much as their impact. One thing that I can imagine happening though is, you know, there’s that idiom that the squeaky wheel gets the grease. Basically, if you had a loud person that is really vying for their promo and, you know, making all aggressively trying to make the posts and, you know, constantly bothering their manager, Hey, I wanna get promoted. That oftentimes, assuming they have impact too, if they don’t have impact, then it’s not gonna, nothing’s gonna happen. But assuming if they’re also a high performer that’s, you know, reasonable, quiet and solid, not selfish, that actually that loud person unfortunately, I think in most organizations will get rewarded first or faster. What do you think about that?
So in your case, you were focusing on impact. You had these role models of these des that you wanted to be like, and I’m kind of curious what eventually did the growth look like and how did your impact grow?
The definition of impact seems to have shifted while you were thinking about your de journey and did you ever debate the definition of impact, or what was your thinking when you saw that the criteria was updated?
I’d love to hear some examples of what a de level of impact looks like. Can you talk about some of the people who have done really impressive engineering work?
Yeah, the, the achievement of these engineers is absurd. I mean, you mentioned lab assembly. I mean, I think of a business like Figma as possible because of a lot of that work. Um, and that’s a tens of billions of dollars industry, or I mean, uh, uh, company just by its public market cap. And so it, the, the value that’s being created by these distinguished genders is absurd. What’s interesting to me is, I guess ‘cause it’s a more open source company, the value capture is very different. I’m curious, is that something that, I dunno, people in at Mozilla are ever not feeling great about? ‘cause they’ve created so much value, but the capture is happening by these capitalist, uh, other companies.
So then after these examples of, uh, distinguished engineers, I’m curious what advice you would give to someone who wants to become a distinguished engineer.
Do you have tips on how to write well?
Yeah, I think every single person I’ve ever asked this question to has always said. Be concise. It’s shocking to me how, uh, unanimous that advice is. Okay, so going back to the browser wars, I think we all know how things have played out, and I see that there’s this new era of browser wars that’s things are heating up. Again, there’s a lot of competition for an AI browser or bringing AI into existing browsers. And I’m kind of curious for your take on what the future of the browser wars is gonna look like as the CTO of Firefox.
You mentioned all the components of the browser and there’s the web engine and you know, a lot of those AI browsers and um, like, and also other ones like opera, et. They’re actually built on chromium at the end. I’m curious, what, what do you think would happen if Firefox was built on chromium? Like what is the advantage of Firefox building its own, uh, web engine? So,
Coming to the end of the interview, I just wanna ask you a few questions kind of reflecting over your career. ‘cause I feel like you have a lot of experience when you look back on your career and you know, you made a lot of contributions. You were an IC through and through for almost all of your time at Mozilla. I’m curious, is there any technical decision that in hindsight, you wish you’d change?
Is there a top book that made an impact on your career?
Last question for you is, if you could give yourself some advice when you had just entered the industry, is there anything you’d say, knowing everything you know now
Alright, well thank you Bobby for your time. I really appreciate it. With that being said, is there any last words you wanna say for the audience?
The first thing I wanted to ask you is how did you get into programming to begin with?
After you graduated from college, I understand that the first role you had was at Symbian. Can you tell me the story about working at Symbian?
Would you say that that role was similar to the popular role of forward deployed engineer in the industry today?
So you talked about the future companies. I know we're talking about Google and Stripe. I'd love to hear the story about how you got into working at Google.
I've noticed that in a lot of people who have had a lot of career success and stay at one place for a while, they don't stay there out of complacency. They're constantly trying to leave, but that place is treating them so well that they end up staying rather than job hopping.
The thing that motivated you in that agency that worked out for your career, was that the perceived impact that you would have or was that the technical curiosity?
Yeah, that framing is really powerful. I imagine in motivating a team to move forward towards things that are impactful. I remember YouTube also had a very similar thing, which was that for the longest time they were driving towards maybe a billion minutes watched per some unit of time. That unifying goal, just everyone's saying, okay, a billion's a big number, I'm going to chase that. I could totally see why that was very motivating for you as an engineer.
So you talked about management, and I understand that you grew from an IC to a manager quite quickly. When people think about the management versus senior engineer fork in the road, it's not a clear-cut decision for everyone. I'm curious, what was the story behind you making that decision for yourself?
Most of the people that I talk to who tried the TLM role and I ask them, do you recommend it? They tell me no. They say you're doing two jobs at the same time, and it's difficult to excel in either one. So what do you say to that, 'cause it sounds like you're supportive.
I mean, eventually though you grew to a VP at Google, so I can't imagine you were still taking on feature work when you're at that level of org leader. Right?
I remember when Elon Musk bought Twitter and there was this strong influence from his side on managers should code and this push, basically what you're saying, and I guess some of the downstream benefits of it came in. There was a big debate in the industry on that thing. When I think about going deep versus scaling yourself, the very brainless quick thing I can think of is that IC project that you might have done, like the iPhone one for instance. You could also have positioned someone to do that work and then you go focus on more high leverage things. So what's the case against that?
So if I'm understanding correctly, that first case on the iOS team, you were hands-on, through and through. You were an individual contributor as a manager, right? But the latter thing that you're recommending as an org leader is more of an educational thing for yourself.
Eventually, you mentioned transitioning to org leader. You still got involved here and there, but ultimately you weren't hands-on. It's just the nature of the role. To me, you seem like an engineer through and through. Were you ever afraid of losing your technical edge?
Before we leave the IC versus EM decision, a lot of people in the audience are probably making this decision for themselves or kind of near it. How do you think about what's the optimal way to make that decision?
You mentioned at Google and Meta there are these parallel tracks and they can go equivalently as deep, but there are differences between the roles and probably differences between the progressions. Let's say you're someone in the audience who's hell-bent on, "I just want to go up." What path would you recommend, or do you have any thoughts on that?
I think there are so many things to optimize for in career fulfillment, of course, and obviously there are a lot of benefits to it. I still think there are people who will chase the carrot, even if you gave them that advice.
At Google, I understand that you went from an entry-level IC all the way to VP of engineering, and you must have a very unique perspective because almost no one gets promoted to levels of that height. I want to ask you, because you went through levels of management. I wanted to hear your perspective on the differences. The first step is frontline manager versus manager of managers. When you made that jump, what was your biggest skill gap?
Am I understanding correctly that if a team is too happy, that's actually a red flag for you?
That makes sense. I think that's a really interesting spectrum that you call out in the happiness of teams. It reminds me of a similar concept where teams that are not breaking anything are probably moving too slow.
You know, we talked about frontline manager versus manager of managers. Now I'm curious about the step that very few people ever experience, which is you went through senior management all the way to VP. What's the difference between your role as a senior manager versus when you are a VP?
Did you ever consider that engineer-acation, but for the other roles?
In a previous interview, you had mentioned that communication is incredibly important for senior engineering leaders. What are your thoughts on how to get better at communication?
There are a lot of people that speak a lot, but I don't think they speak like you do. I watched you give a keynote in 2019 for Stripe Sessions, and you came onto stage and immediately within a second I'm like, this guy's confident. He knows what he's saying. There's something different about the practice that you did, 'cause there are managers who speak all the time, but I've been to many all hands where people are zoning out.
A lot of engineers who get into leadership roles are tasked with giving their top of mind in all hands, et cetera. I think 95% of those, if not more, everyone's got their laptops out and most of the message is falling flat. Do you have any tips on how that manager can do storytelling in a way that the org is actually gonna pay attention?
For writing, the thing you called out was condensing the writing. Yeah. You recently wrote this post about agents crossing a chasm, and I scroll to the bottom of it, and it says, you know, Ari Grant, a bunch of these people had reviewed it. How important are the people reviewing your writing in that process of condensing?
Before we leave, just general management practices, we talked a little bit about scaling yourself and you said it was especially important as a senior manager and hire. What are those high leverage ways to scale yourself, aside from coaching your direct reports?
You mentioned hating processes, and I think that's pretty common among engineers. How do you decide when the process is net positive versus net negative?
But how do you prevent that if you're the VP or the manager and you say, okay, we need a sev review process? You go to some tech lead and you say, "Hey, this is your thing."
Yeah, yeah. Well, that person that was just handed this thing top down is unlikely to be passionate about it and really think critically about whether this is net positive. But how did you get them to care about the process?
Makes sense. I could see the culture of the people you are delegating to is important, but also probably how you delegate is important. If you gave the context behind why it's impactful.
One topic that I want to touch on, and this is something that Philip mentioned. Philip is, there was another podcast that I did. He was the site lead for Facebook in London. He said, "Who did he talk to that gave the best advice on how to start that site?" It was David Singleton. It was you. Wow. He said you had a track record of doing it and you had learned about doing that at Google. At the same time, I imagine there's a lot of AI companies today that probably started in San Francisco. They're probably thinking about scaling up. How do you get a remote location to carry the right culture so that it's successful?
And when you say culture, you don't just mean Google. You mean Google London. Google London. Yeah. Like you're a clan, like a specific group.
If I'm understanding correctly, the earlier part was, the further away the time zones are, the more independently you'd want each site to be to execute.
When COVID happened, there was this big move towards remote being more acceptable as a collaboration model. Now that you're starting your own company, when you think about teams in this post-COVID environment, which one do you think is optimal? Do you think a team purely in person is better? Do you think full remote is best? Is hybrid best? What are your thoughts on that?
Coming to the end of your time at Google, I saw that after you were promoted to a VP, you remained in that role for two years and five months. My question to you is what was keeping you in that role for that long?
That's so interesting because now that I have more of the context, you and Philip were not enemies, but kind of though.
It's just so interesting that actually that's the number one person you were thinking about banding together with for starting a new venture.
You mentioned wanting to start a venture after Google, and I saw in the post that you wrote about leaving Stripe that a company was the thing you were considering doing before you got into Stripe. That's right. I'm curious, what was the company idea? What's the story there?
Would you fund it if someone is trying to start it?
In the post, it almost sounds like you went to them for advice on starting the company. That is correct. How did you realize the conversation was turning towards them recruiting you?
I understand you took the role as head of engineering at Stripe at the time, and then later you grew to CTO. That kind of promotion is probably very bespoke. What is the story behind getting promoted from head of engineering to CTO?
Definitely, I've heard a similar opinion that at a large company, the organizations within the company are almost strangers as well. It's helpful when the director is reaching out as opposed to this person in engineering reaching out; they'll get alignment and stuff like that.
You mentioned org design, and as a CTO, I imagine that was something you thought about a lot. I see all these famous engineering cultures; Facebook has its own thing with "move fast and break things" and all of these principles. Similarly, Google has its own principles. Amazon has its own principles. I thought it'd be interesting to hear your take on which big tech companies' engineering culture you thought is most well designed and maybe less well designed.
When I look at Stripe's operating principles, I do see the Amazon influence specifically in its users first, and at Amazon, it's customer obsession. I think those are kind of similar.
I'm curious, depending on the stage of the company, I could see people thinking that it might be too early to be thinking about those things and maybe go more with that less intentional Google approach that you were talking about. How do you see that with the stage of the company? When do you start thinking about we need to scale this culture?
How do you concretely, as an engineering leader, enforce culture?
With the operating principle, for instance, being meticulous with your craft, you might see some new UI that's built or some new project. If it's not meticulous, if it's rushed, you as an engineering leader would, in a respectful way, call it out.
So this Walk the Store thing, if I understand correctly, you are in an all-hands meeting dogfooding the product publicly. Exactly. And if there's a problem, you would say something. Exactly. That could be nerve-wracking.
One thing that Stripe is really famous for is the many nines of reliability, just this legendary engineering feat. Of course, there are these engineering blog posts out there that people can read if they're curious how it's done. But what I wanted to ask you as the CTO of Stripe was, what are the intentional engineering culture changes that enable that type of reliability?
Reliability is not free. It comes with a cost in terms of additional machines for redundancy, but also there's a lot of overhead and probably slowing things down. Let's do more diff reviews. Let's have incident reviews. Let's really make sure that if it's touching a risky code path, we go a little slower. Did you ever at Stripe think is it too reliable and is it worth that trade-off and cost?
I see. So if I'm understanding, you're saying that with the right investments in shifting left, so catching regressions earlier, you don't make that trade-off between de-risking. That's right. You actually can move fast and be safe.
One of the last things on Stripe is Stripe was very well known for the engineering talent, and I'm curious, what are the material actions that the company would take to hire such strong engineers?
One of the common things I hear about lead code and why it's used at the largest companies is that to do what you did at Stripe at scale is challenging. Maintaining those people are going to probably leak those questions. Yeah, they do. So how did Stripe do it successfully?
Earlier you mentioned what Stripe did to draw in the talent, even pre-assessment, and it sounded like you were saying that if you want to attract excellent people, build something that's excellent. Is that right?
As the CTO of Stripe, you had proximity to Stripe’s leadership team. I’d love to hear what are the things that you learned from such talented people?
It sounds like you're saying it is a useful tool, but not in every single place. At this point in your career, you have seen so many patterns and you have had successes that maybe sometimes were shortcutting and using the experience.
Coming away from Stripe, I saw you recently left to start your current company, which is Dev Agents. And I would love to hear more about what the company is building and maybe we can start with the story behind you leaving Stripe and wanting to build this.
So I'm trying to understand what the product is here. It sounds like it's infrastructure. A consumer would not know the words Dev Agents; the consumer would see, this is my airline agent and some developer built that. And behind the scenes, they're using what you're offering.
The AI industry right now is like a war zone. There's so much interest, and because there's so much interest, there are so many people competing. I'm curious, how do you see yourself outcompeting big names like OpenAI who probably have interest in this exact thing?
Across your career, you started as an IC, you went all the way up to some of the highest levels of leverage in these organizations, and now you're on a small team. I'm curious, what does the day-to-day look like now? How different is it from that first time you were a frontline manager?
Coming to the end of the interview, I want to do some career reflections. Going over everything that you've done so far, if you were to look back on your career with this retrospective lens, what would you say went well? What do you think didn't go well?
Looking back, is there anything you regret where you thought, I could have changed that and that would've been a lot better?
Is one way to know if a company's like that is if the titles are less in your face?
Well, I had no idea that early Google also used that title.
Is there a top recommendation for a book that really impacted your career?
Habits are very powerful. Especially they compound over time. I'm curious, is there any habit that you took with you throughout your career that really had an impact?
And the last question that I wanted to ask you is, if you could go back to yourself when you just graduated from college and you were about to enter the industry and you could give yourself some advice, what would you say?
Well, thank you so much for your time, David. I really appreciate it. This was a really interesting conversation. Now is your opportunity if you want to tell the audience anything, you can go ahead and speak.